# Author:Christos Hadjichristofi:christoshadjichristofi@hotmail.com

# Exercise 18:JavaScript

## Chapter
Classes

## Chapter Introduction
In JavaScript, classes are an important concept in object-oriented programming. They allow you to define a blueprint for creating objects with specific properties and methods.

A class is essentially a template for creating objects, and each object created from a class is known as an instance of that class. Classes can be thought of as a user-defined data type, where each instance of the class has its own set of data (instance variables) and methods.

In JavaScript, classes were introduced in ES6 and are defined using the `class` keyword. A class can have a constructor method which is called when an object is created from the class. The constructor method is used to initialize the instance variables of the class.

Class methods are defined using regular function syntax, but are added to the class definition using the `class` keyword. Class methods can be either static or instance methods. Instance methods are defined using the prototype property of the class, while static methods are defined as properties of the class itself.

Classes also support inheritance, where a new class can be created based on an existing class, inheriting all of its properties and methods. This is achieved using the extends keyword.

As mentioned before, classes in JavaScript are a way of creating objects with properties and methods, similar to classes in other programming languages. They are introduced in ECMAScript 6 and provide syntactic sugar over the existing prototype-based inheritance in JavaScript.

Here's an example of creating a `Person` class:

```js
class Person {
  constructor(name, age) {
    this.name = name;
    this.age = age;
  }
  
  greet() {
    console.log(`Hello, my name is ${this.name} and I am ${this.age} years old.`);
  }
}
```

In this example, we define a `Person` class with a `constructor` method that takes two arguments, `name` and `age`. The `constructor` method is called when a new `Person` object is created, and sets the `name` and `age` properties on the object.

We also define a `greet` method on the Person class that logs a greeting message to the console, using the `name` and `age` properties of the object.

To create a new `Person` object, we use the `new` keyword:

```js
const person = new Person('John', 30);
```

This creates a new `Person` object with the `name` property set to `'John'` and the `age` property set to `30`. We can call the `greet` method on this object to log the greeting message to the console:

```js
person.greet(); // logs "Hello, my name is John and I am 30 years old."
```

Using classes in JavaScript makes it easier to create and manage objects with similar properties and behaviors, and provides a cleaner syntax for doing so.

Classes are an important part of object-oriented programming, allowing for code reuse and modularity. Understanding how to use classes effectively is crucial for building scalable and maintainable JavaScript applications.

## Subchapter

## Subchapter Introduction

## Exercise Description
Write a class called Polygon that takes an array of 2D points as an input in the form of an array, where each subarray contains two numbers representing the x and y coordinates of the point. The class should have two methods:

- getPerimeter(): which returns the perimeter of the polygon. In order to calculate the perimeter of the polygon, you need to calculate the distance between each consecutive pair of points and add them up.
- getArea(): which returns the area of the polygon. In order to calculate the area of the polygon, you need to use the Shoelace formula.
The Shoelace formula calculates the area of a polygon given its vertices (in order), as follows: $Area = 1/2 * |(x1y2 + x2y3 + ... + xny1) - (y1x2 + y2x3 + ... + ynx1)|$, where n is the number of vertices, and (xi, yi) are the coordinates of the ith vertex.

Finally, create a Polygon instance with an array of three points (0,0), (0,2), and (3,0). Call the getPerimeter and getArea methods and print the results to the console.

## Code
```js
class Polygon {
  constructor(points) {
    this.points = points;
  }
  getPerimeter() {
    let perimeter = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < this.points.length; i++) {
      let j = (i + 1) % this.points.length;
      let dx = this.points[i][0] - this.points[j][0];
      let dy = this.points[i][1] - this.points[j][1];
      perimeter += Math.sqrt(dx * dx + dy * dy);
    }
    return perimeter;
  }
  getArea() {
    let area = 0;
    for (let i = 0; i < this.points.length; i++) {
      let j = (i + 1) % this.points.length;
      area += this.points[i][0] * this.points[j][1] - this.points[j][0] * this.points[i][1];
    }
    return Math.abs(area / 2);
  }
}

const polygon = new Polygon([[0, 0], [0, 2], [3, 0]]);
console.log(polygon.getPerimeter());
console.log(polygon.getArea());
```

## Output Data
type=oneline
8.60555127546399^3

## Hints

### Hint 1
In the getPerimeter() method, you can use the modulus operator to connect the last point to the first point, and calculate the distance between each consecutive pair of points using the distance formula.

#### Penalty
20 Points

### Hint 2
In the getArea() method, you can use the Shoelace formula to calculate the area of the polygon. To do this, you'll need to iterate through the points and use their coordinates to calculate the area using the formula given above.

#### Penalty
20 Points

## Difficulty
4