# Author:Christos Hadjichristofi:christoshadjichristofi@hotmail.com

# Exercise 78:JavaScript

## Chapter
Expressions and Operators

## Chapter Introduction
In JavaScript, an expression is a combination of values, variables, and operators that produces a result when it is executed. For example, the following is a simple arithmetic expression that uses the + operator to add two numbers together:

```js
3 + 4
```

In this example, the numbers `3` and `4` are the values, and the `+` symbol is the operator. When the expression is evaluated, the result is `7`.

An operator is a special symbol that is used to perform a specific operation on one or more values. In JavaScript, there are many different operators available, including arithmetic operators (such as `+`, `-`, `*`, `**`, `%`, `++`, `--` and `/`), comparison operators (such as `<`, `>`, `==`, and `!=`), and logical operators (such as `&&`, `||`, and `!`).

For example, the following expression uses the `==` operator to compare two values to see if they are equal:

```js
5 == 5
```

In this example, the `==` operator is used to compare the values `5` and `5`, and the result of the expression is `true` because the values are equal.

Overall, expressions and operators are an important part of JavaScript, and they are used to perform a wide range of operations and calculations in the language.

## Subchapter
Expressions:Logical:Relational,Expressions and Operators:Operators overview:Logical:Comparison

## Subchapter Introduction
In JavaScript, logical expressions are used to evaluate whether a certain condition is true or false. There are three logical operators that are commonly used in JavaScript: the 'AND' operator (`&&`), the 'OR' operator (`||`) and the 'NOT' operator (`!`):

```js
console.log(50 > 43 && !( 1 > 2 || 3 <= 4));
```

Logical expressions can be used in a variety of contexts in JavaScript, such as in `if` statements, `while` loops, and ternary operator statements. They are an important part of any programming language and are useful for controlling the flow of your code.

## Exercise Description
Based on the following logical expressions print `true` or `false` based on what you think the output will be:
- `('1' > 1) && ("" < 0) || ([] == {})`
- `(42 > 41) && (11 < 11) || (1 == '1')`
- `("this is a test" > "comparison between strings!") && ("is this" < "the result") || ("you'd" == "expect??")`

1. **Do not write the expressions in code, instead try to guess the result based on the knowledge you acquired.**
2. **The output you provide should be one line printing true or false for each expression provided in the exercise.**

Is this what you'd expect?

## Code
```js
console.log(false, true, true);
```

## Output Data
type=oneline
false^true^true

## Hints

### Hint 1
In JavaScript, the greater than (`>`) operator is used to compare the values of two operands and determine whether the first operand is greater than the second operand. When the operands are of different types, JavaScript performs type coercion, which means it converts the operands to a common type before making the comparison.

#### Penalty
20 Points

### Hint 2
Remember, `[]` and `{}` are both converted to `strings`. `[]` converts to an empty `string`, while the `{}` converts to `[object Object]`. Thus the result is?

#### Penalty
20 Points

### Hint 3
In JavaScript, the greater than (`>`) operator is used to compare the values of two operands and determine whether the first operand is greater than the second operand. When the operands are strings, JavaScript compares the strings lexicographically, which means it compares the Unicode code points of the characters in the strings one by one until it finds a difference.

#### Penalty
20 Points

## Difficulty
3