# Author:Nicoletta Tsiopani :tsiopnicol_99@hotmail.com

# Exercise 43: Python

## Chapter
Lists

## Chapter Introduction
Lists are used to store multiple items in a single variable.

Lists are one of 4 built-in data types in Python used to store collections of data. A list can contain any datatype, even different datatypes.

The items of a list are always in order and it is very easy to add, change or remove elements of a list.

Lists are created using square brackets:

```python
listname = [1,2,3]

print(listname)
```

## Subchapter
Lists: List pop() Method


## Subchapter Introduction
The pop() Method is used to delete the item of a specific `index` from the list `listname` and to return the deleted item.

```python
listname.pop(index)

removedvalue = listname.pop(index)
```

The removed item may be displayed on the screen (first command line) or be saved as a new variable (second command line).

If the `index` is not defined, it is considered to be `-1` (i.e. the last item) by default.

If the `index` does not correspond to an item of the list `listname`, then the command returns an error message.

## Exercise Description
Create a list `abc` with the values `['a','b','z','c']`. Delete the third item and save that item as a new variable `z`. Print the variable `z` and the list `abc`.

## Code
```python
abc = ['a','b','z','c']

z = abc.pop(2)

print(z)
print(abc)
```

## Output Data
z^['a', 'b', 'c']

## Hints

### Hint 1
To remove an item of a specific `index` from a list `listname` and save that item as a new variable write:

```python
removedvalue = listname.pop(index)
```

#### Penalty
20 Points


