# Author:Nicoletta Tsiopani :tsiopnicol_99@hotmail.com

# Exercise 52: Python

## Chapter
Lists

## Chapter Introduction
Lists are used to store multiple items in a single variable.

Lists are one of 4 built-in data types in Python used to store collections of data. A list can contain any datatype, even different datatypes.

The items of a list are always in order and it is very easy to add, change or remove elements of a list.

Lists are created using square brackets:

```python
listname = [1,2,3]

print(listname)
```

## Subchapter
Lists: String to List Conversion


## Subchapter Introduction
There are many methods of converting a string to a list.

A string can be converted to a list of characters by using the list() function. In this way the `listname` contains all the individual characters of the `stringname`, even spaces.

```python
listname = list(stringname)
```

A string can be converted to a list of strings by using the split() function. In this way the `listname` contains the different parts of the `stringname` that are separated with space (first line of commands) or with commas (second line of commands) or with something else which is used as input argument to the split() function.

```python
listname = stringname.split()

listname = stringname.split(',')
```

Also, a combination of the previous two conversions can be made, by using the map() function. In the next lines of code an example of this conversion is presented with the expected output for each command in comments.

```python
abcdef = 'ab,cd,ef'

abcdef1 = abcdef.split(',')             
# ['ab', 'cd', 'ef']

abcdef2 = list(map(list,abcdef1))       
# [['a', 'b'], ['c', 'd'], ['e', 'f']]
```


## Exercise Description
Save the string `'Happy Birthday'` as a variable with the name `hb`. Then convert this string to a list of lists that contain the individual characters of the two words of the string, `hb_list`. Print the list. 

## Code
```python
hb = 'Happy Birthday'

hb_list = list(map(list,hb.split()))

print(hb_list)
```

## Output Data
[['H', 'a', 'p', 'p', 'y'], ['B', 'i', 'r', 't', 'h', 'd', 'a', 'y']]

## Hints

### Hint 1
To convert a string `stringname` to a list of lists of the individual characters of the parts of the string write: 

```python
listname = list(map(list,stringname.split()))       
```


#### Penalty
20 Points


