# Author:Nicoletta Tsiopani :tsiopnicol_99@hotmail.com

# Exercise 54: Python

## Chapter
Lists

## Chapter Introduction
Lists are used to store multiple items in a single variable.

Lists are one of 4 built-in data types in Python used to store collections of data. A list can contain any datatype, even different datatypes.

The items of a list are always in order and it is very easy to add, change or remove elements of a list.

Lists are created using square brackets:

```python
listname = [1,2,3]

print(listname)
```

## Subchapter
Lists: String to List Conversion, , Python While Loops: For Loop


## Subchapter Introduction
There are many methods of converting a string to a list.

A string can be converted to a list of characters by using the list() function. In this way the `listname` contains all the individual characters of the `stringname`, even spaces.

```python
listname = list(stringname)
```

A string can be converted to a list of strings by using the split() function. In this way the `listname` contains the different parts of the `stringname` that are separated with space (first line of commands) or with commas (second line of commands) or with something else which is used as input argument to the split() function.

```python
listname = stringname.split()

listname = stringname.split(',')
```

Also, a combination of the previous two conversions can be made, by using the map() function. In the next lines of code an example of this conversion is presented with the expected output for each command in comments.

```python
abcdef = 'ab,cd,ef'

abcdef1 = abcdef.split(',')             
# ['ab', 'cd', 'ef']

abcdef2 = list(map(list,abcdef1))       
# [['a', 'b'], ['c', 'd'], ['e', 'f']]
```


## Exercise Description
Create the list `week` with the values ['Monday,Tuesday,Wednesday,Thursday,Friday','Saturday,Sunday']. Convert the two items of the list `week` to two lists of strings that contain the weekdays and the days of the weekend, respectively. Use for loop. Print the updated list `week`.

## Code
```python
week = ['Monday,Tuesday,Wednesday,Thursday,Friday','Saturday,Sunday']

for i in range(0,2) :
    week[i] = week[i].split(',')

print(week)
```

## Output Data
[['Monday', 'Tuesday', 'Wednesday', 'Thursday', 'Friday'], ['Saturday', 'Sunday']]

## Hints

### Hint 1
To convert a string `stringname` to a list of strings write:

```python
listname = stringname.split()
```
Use `','` as the input argument of the function split().

#### Penalty
20 Points

### Hint 2
To create the for loop use this form of code:

```python
for counter in sequence :
	expressions
```

#### Penalty
20 Points

### Hint 3
Use `range(0,2)` as the sequence for the for loop.

#### Penalty
20 Points