# Author:Nicoletta Tsiopani :tsiopnicol_99@hotmail.com

# Exercise 10: Python

## Chapter
Lists

## Chapter Introduction
Lists are used to store multiple items in a single variable.

Lists are one of 4 built-in data types in Python used to store collections of data. A list can contain any datatype, even different datatypes.

The items of a list are always in order and it is very easy to add, change or remove elements of a list.

Lists are created using square brackets:

```python
listname = [1,2,3]

print(listname)
```

## Subchapter
Lists: Indexing: List Creation by Range() Function

## Subchapter Introduction
Indexing is needed to access the items of a list, using square brackets. 

```python
variable = listname[index]
```
There are two ways of indexing:

Zero indexing: the first item of a list has the index `0`, the second item of the list has the index `1` and so on.

Negative indexing: the last item of a list has the index `-1`, the second last item has the index `-2` and so on.

Slicing is used to access more than one item of a list in one command.

```python
values = listname[start:end]
```

The index `start` is included while the index `end` is not.

The index `start` can be omitted and it is considered that it takes the value `0`. Also, the index `end` can be omitted and it is considered that it takes the index of the last item of the list.

## Exercise Description
Create a list called `evennums` which contains all the even numbers between `1` and `20` (included) (i.e. `2`,`4`,`6`,...) by using the Range() Function. Print the first five items of the list and then print the last five items of the list.

## Code
```python
evennums = list(range(2,21,2))

print(evennums[:5])
print(evennums[5:])
```
## Output Data
[2, 4, 6, 8, 10]^[12, 14, 16, 18, 20]

## Hints

### Hint 1
To access the first `n` items of a list write:

```python
values = listname[:n]
```

#### Penalty
20 Points

### Hint 2
To access the last items of a list write:

```python
values = listname[start:]
```

#### Penalty
20 Points